Ingredients: Serves 6

1 kg chicken, washed and drained completely
2 large onions, finely sliced
2 tbsps chopped coriander leaves
1 tsp saffron
1/2 cup luke warm milk (don't use wine here. That is for the Spanish Chicken rice ;) )
salt to taste
2 tbsps ghee + 5 tbsps oil

For marination:

3/4 cup thick curd/yogurt
8-10 green chillis, make a small slit in them
1 1/2 tbsps ginger garlic paste
1 tbsp red chilli pwd (adjust)
1/4 tsp turmeric pwd
3/4 tbsp coriander pwd
1/2 cup chopped cilantro leaves
3/4 cup mint leaves
juice of 1 lemon
1 3/4 tsps salt

Biryani masala, make pwd: (You can also get this from indian stores for convenience)
8 cloves
1″ cinnamon stick
4 cardamom
3/4 tsp caraway seeds
12 pepper corns

Ingredients to cook rice:
4 cups Basmati rice
6 cloves
3 cardamom pods
1″ cinnamon stick
3 bay leaves
1 marathi mogga (optional) (http://www.amazon.com/Marathi-Moggu-Indian-Spice-1lb/dp/B005A9RRIO)
1 star anise
10 mint leaves
1 tbsp oil
1 1/2 tbsps salt
water as required

1 Marinate chicken with the ingredients called for ‘marination’ along with biryani masala pwd. Keep aside for 4 hrs or a min of 1 1/2 hrs. While the chicken is marinating, work on the rest of the preparation.
2 Cook basmati rice in lots of water along with bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon, cardamom, marathi mogga, elaichi, oil, salt till its half cooked. Strain the water and spread the rice on a large wide plate. Allow to cool. If you take a raice grain and apply pressure with your fingers, it should easily crack with a crunch.
3 Heat 1 tbsp oil + 1 tbsp ghee in a vessel, add sliced onions, saute for 8-10 mts till caramelized. Remove and keep aside.
4 Add the saffron to the luke warm milk and combine well. Keep aside.
5 Take a wide deep vessel to prepare the biryani. Add 3 tbsps oil, add the marinated chicken and spread out over the vessel. Cook on high for 2 mts. Add a tbsp of oil over the chicken pieces. Reduce flame.
6 Spread half of the rice over the chicken layer, pour half a tbsp of ghee all over the rice, add half of the caramalized onions and spread over the rice. Next sprinkle a tbsp of cilantro leaves and pour about one fourth cup of saffron milk over the rice. Over this layer, spread the remaining rice. Again pour half a tbsp of ghee all over, add remaining caramelized onions and spread over the rice. Finally sprinkle a tbsp of coriander leaves and pour remaining saffron milk over the rice.
7 Place lid over the vessel place a heavy weight on the lid and seal the edges with wheat dough. Cook on high flame for 2 mts. Remove the vessel from the stove and place on a iron tawa. Allow to heat. Reduce to low flame and place back the biryani vessel on the iron tawa and cook biryani for 20-25 mts. Turn off heat and do not remove lid for 10 mts.
8 After 10 mts, remove lid, combine gently and serve hot with raita and curry of your choice.
